# ImageProcessingPython
In the digital world, images are defined as 3-dimensional matrices: height (row), width (column), and channel (color). Each (row, col) entry is called a pixel. Height and width dimensions are intuitive: they define the size of the image. The channel dimension defines the color of an image. 
The most commonly used color model is RGB. In this model, every color can be defined as a mixture of three primary color channels: Red, Green and Blue. Thus, the color of a pixel is digitally defined as a triplet (R, G, B). Each element in this triplet is an integer (called intensity) with value between 0 and 255 (both inclusive), where 0 represents no R/G/B is present and 255 means R/G/B is fully present. Thus, (0, 0, 0) represents black since no R/G/B are present, and (255, 255, 255) represents white. To better understand how the RGB color model works, you can play around the RGB value with this online color wheel.
In this project, we will use a 3-dimensional list of integers to structure the pixels. This picture shows how a pixels list is structured. https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/matlab-rgb-image-representation/

The first dimension is the row, starting from the top. The second dimension is the column, starting from the left. The third dimension is the color channel. In other words, len(pixels[row][col]) = 3, and each of the items in the pixels[row][col] list represents an intensity (0 - 255, both inclusive) of each color. Therefore, to index a specific intensity value at row i, column j, and channel c of the pixels list, you use pixels[i][j][c].

